Pointers are the types of variables in C++.
These are also there in C language, so similar thing is there in C++.
So what is the pointer.
pointer is a variable which is used for storing the address of data.
Based on this I will categorize variables of two types.
One is data variable and it is used for storing data and next is address variable.
This is used for storing adress.
So now we have two types of variables: data Variable  and address variable.
So let us see if I am declaring a variable like say X and I'm storing value 10 so it is a integer
type variable X having value ten that is for storing data and it's a data variable.
and you know well that when we declare the variables it will occupy some memory depending on the size of the
integer.
So for our discussion we assume that the integer takes just two bytes of memory.
So let us say 2c bytes  and assume that the adresses are 200 and 201.
Actually the compiler that we are using that is taking 4 bytes.
But if we take four bytes in the discussion it will be too long.
So that's why I'm limiting our discussion as integer takes two bytes.
Now,
How do you declare a address variable.
So I will declare a variable with the main P usually pointers are  declared with name P so that we can easily
identify that  this is a pointer.
Just P, No
It will become a data variable again.
So how to differentiate that no
This is for adress.
So it should be preffix with star.
So this is a address variable so it cannot store the data but it can store the address of the data.
So as this is a variable, this is occupying two bytes.
So pointer is also a variable so it will also occupy some bytes.
So we assume that this also occupies two bytes.
Let us say that adresses are  300 and 301.
So this also taking two bytes of memory.
Now if I say P assign &X so what is the adress of x 200.
So that 200 will be stored in P.
So here it will be 200.
So it will be pointing on X. It is having the adress of X. It's not having data but having the address
of X so tht's how it's the address variable and it is pointing on X showing the location of x.
So that's why you call it as pointer.
Now let us see the syntax see if I write *P.
this the declaration of address variable, that's a pointer and this is initialization of a pointer
variable.
So I will  removed this I will hadd ave some display statements here.
Let us see.
I will say cout x.  so x is containing 10 so ten will be displayed.
Then I will say Cout &X so it means adress of x that is 200
So 200 will be displayed.
Then I will say Cout P, now what it will be displaying see, as I said X so it was displaying the content
inside X so same way and I say P It will be showing the contents of P that is two hundred yes two hundred
will be displayed.
can i say cout &P address of P is 300 will be displayed. now the final and the important
one that is Cout star
P what happens this will be displaying the data where P is pointing, so P iS pointing at 200 at that list.
10 is there, so 10.
So this is called as d differenceing or accessing the data where P is pointing so this is astrick or star
So far pointers syntax
There are three statements that are important.
First one is this line this is declaration and this is initialization and this is dereferencing , i will write down
first three lines here
declaration of a pointer as lift this item from normal variables that is what write stopped in front
of a variable name whatever the name you want you can give it, then next is
initialization.
So we write P assigned any variable name. if you already have existing variable so you can use this one
then next is
dereferencing so *P.
I have used this with cout  *P so this *P is called as a dereferencing.
So these are the three important things that you should know about.
The pointer people find this a little confusing but let us clearly see there are three things that
are related to A pointer, how to declare it.
Star should be there.
when you are initializing star should not be there.
when you  are dereferencing, it means where ever the point is pointing you are going to that location
to location and accessing the data, pointer is refering here.
Derefering means going to that location and taking the data.
So if you are doing that then also you have to use a star.
Then there are other operations also like pointer arithmetic is also there, we will see that in the coming
videos.
So what we learn here is how to declare  a pointer and how to use a pointer, how to derefer
it
We have done this.
Next topic we will see what is the purpose of pointer.
What does the use of pointer.